
====================================================================================================
If I were smart, I'd go home now.
Mr. Speaker, Madam Vice President, members of Congress, my fellow Americans.
In January 1941, Franklin Roosevelt came to this chamber to speak to the nation.
Franklin Roosevelt said he addressed the nation at a moment unprecedented in the history of the Union.
Hitler was on the march.
War was raging in Europe.
President Roosevelt's purpose was to wake up Congress and alert the American people that this was no ordinary time.
Freedom and democracy were under assault in the world.
The speaker comes to the same chamber to address the nation.
Now it's us who face an unprecedented moment in the history of the Union.
The purpose of the speaker tonight is to wake up the Congress and alert the American people that this is no ordinary moment.
Not since President Lincoln and the Civil War have freedom and democracy been under assault at home as they are today.
The rare moment is that freedom and democracy are under attack both at home and overseas at the same time.
Putin of Russia is on the march, invading Ukraine.
Putin of Russia is sowing chaos throughout Europe and beyond.
[The speaker assured the audience that Putin will not stop at Ukraine.", "Ukraine can stop Putin if we stand with Ukraine and provide the weapons that it needs to defend itself.", "Ukraine is not asking for American soldiers.", "There are no American soldiers at war in Ukraine.", "The speaker is determined to keep it that way."]
Assistance to Ukraine is being blocked by those who want to walk away from our world leadership.
Ronald Reagan was a Republican president.
Ronald Reagan thundered, 'Mr. Gorbachev, tear down this wall.'
Ronald Reagan was a Republican president.
A former Republican president, a former president, tells Putin, quote, 'Do whatever the hell you want.'
The quote is from a former Republican president.
A former president actually said that — bowing down to a Russian leader.
The former president's statement is outrageous, dangerous, and unacceptable.
America is a founding member of NATO.
NATO is the military alliance of democratic nations.
NATO was created after World War Two.
NATO's purpose is to prevent war and keep the peace.
NATO is the strongest military alliance the world has ever seen.
NATO welcomed Finland to the Alliance last year.
Sweden officially joined NATO this morning.
Sweden's minister is here tonight.
Stand up. Welcome, welcome, welcome.
Sweden knows how to fight.
NATO is the strongest military alliance the world has ever seen.
Congress: We have to stand up to Putin.", "Send me a bipartisan national security bill.", "History is literally watching.", "If the United States walks away, it will put Ukraine at risk.", "Europe is at risk.", "The free world will be at risk.", "The free world will be at risk.", "The free world will be at risk.", "The free world will be at risk.", "The free world will be at risk.", "The free world will be at risk.", "The free world will be at risk.", "The free world will be at risk.", "The free world will be at risk.", "The free world will be at risk.", "The free world will be at risk.", "The free world will be at risk.", "The free world will be at risk.", "The free world will be at risk.", "The free world will be at risk.", "The free world will be at risk.", "The free world will be at risk.", "The free world will be at risk.", "The free world will be at risk.", "The free world will be at risk.", "The free world will be at risk.", "The free world will be at risk.", "The free world will be at risk.", "The free world will be at risk.", "The free world will be at risk.", "The free world will be at risk.", "The free world will be at risk.", "The free world will be at risk.", "The free world will be at risk.", "The free world will be at risk.", "The free world will be at risk.", "The free world will be at risk.", "The free world will be at risk.", "The free world will be at risk.", "The free world will be at risk.", "The free world will be at risk.", "The free world will be at risk.", "The free world will be at risk.", "The free world will be at risk.", "The free world will be at risk.", "The free world will be at risk.", "The free world will be at risk.", "The free world will be at risk.", "The free world will be at risk.", "The free world will be at risk.", "The free world will be at
The message to President Putin is simple: We will not walk away.
The message to President Putin is not to bow down.
The message to President Putin is not to bow down.
In a literal sense, history is watching.
History is watching three years ago on January 6th.
Insurrectionists stormed the Capitol on January 6th.
Insurrectionists placed a dagger to the throat of American democracy.
Many of you were here on that darkest of days.
We all saw with our own eyes the insurrectionists were not patriots.
The insurrectionists had come to stop the peaceful transfer of power.
The insurrectionists had come to overturn the will of the people.
January 6th lies about the 2020 election.
The plots to steal the 2020 election posed a great threat to U.S. democracy since the Civil War.
The threat to democracy must be defended (defeated).
The speaker's predecessor and some of you here seek to bury the truth about January 6th.
The speaker will not bury the truth about January 6th.
This is a moment to speak the truth and to bury the lies.
The simple truth is that you can't love your country only when you win.
The speaker asked all of you, without regard to party, to join together and defend democracy.
The speaker reminded the audience that their oath of office is to defend against all threats foreign and domestic.
The speaker praised free and fair elections.
The speaker praised the restoration of trust in our institutions.
The speaker made clear that political violence has absolutely no place in America.
Political violence has zero place in America.
It's not hyperbole to suggest history is watching.
History is watching.
Your children and grandchildren will read about this day and what we do.
History is watching another assault on freedom.
Latorya Beasley is a social worker from Birmingham, Alabama.
Latorya Beasley joins us tonight.
Fourteen months ago, she and her husband welcomed a baby girl thanks to the miracle of IVF.
The miracle of IVF is a miracle.
She scheduled treatments to have a second child.
The Alabama Supreme Court shut down IVF treatments across the state.
The Alabama Supreme Court decision overturned Roe v. Wade.
The Supreme Court decision overturned Roe v. Wade.
She was told her dream would have to wait.
What her family had gone through should never have happened.
Unless Congress acts, it could happen again.
The speaker wants to stand up for families like the speaker's daughter.
The speaker wants to ask friends across the aisle to guarantee the right to IVF.
The speaker wants to guarantee IVF nationwide.
The speaker believes Roe v. Wade got it right.
The speaker thanks Vice President Harris for being an incredible leader defending reproductive freedom.
The speaker also thanks Vice President Harris for being a leader defending reproductive freedom and so much more.
The speaker's predecessor came to office determined to see Roe v. Wade overturned.
The speaker's predecessor is the reason Roe v. Wade was overturned.
The speaker's predecessor brags about the overturn of Roe v. Wade.
There has been chaos that has resulted from the overturn of Roe v. Wade.
Kate Cox is a wife and mother from Dallas.
[The President of the United States is addressing the audience.", "The speaker's family went through a terrible situation.", "The speaker believes that the situation should never happen to another family.", "There are state laws banning the freedom to choose.", "There are state laws criminalizing doctors.", "There are state laws forcing survivors of rape and incest to leave their states to get the treatment they need.", "Many members of this chamber and the President's predecessor are promising to pass a national ban on reproductive freedom.", "The President of the United States is asking the audience for freedoms other than reproductive freedom."]
["The Supreme Court majority wrote a statement about women's electoral or political power.", "The statement was made with all due respect to Justices.", "The statement was about overturning Roe v. Wade.", "The statement was about women's right to have electoral or political power.", "The statement was about women's right to have political power.", "The statement was about women's right to have political power.", "The statement was about women's right to have political power.", "The statement was about women's right to have political power.", "The statement was about women's right to have political power.", "The statement was about women's right to have political power.", "The statement was about women's right to have political power.", "The statement was about women's right to have political power.", "The statement was about women's right to have political power.", "The statement was about women's right to have political power.", "The statement was about women's right to have political power.", "The statement was about women's right to have political power.", "The statement was about women's right to have political power.", "The statement was about women's right to have political power.", "The statement was about women's right to have political power.", "The statement was about women's right to have political power.", "The statement was about women's right to have political power.", "The statement was about women's right to have political power.", "The statement was about women's right to have political power.", "The statement was about women's right to have political power.", "The statement was about women's right to have political power.", "The statement was about women's right to have political power.", "The statement was about women's right to have political power.", "The statement was about women's right to have political power.", "The statement was about women's right to have political power.", "The statement was about women's right to have political power.", "The statement was about women's right to have political power.", "The statement was about women's right to have political power.", "The statement was about women's right to have political power.", "The statement was about women's right to
Reproductive freedom was on the ballot in 2022 and 2023.
Reproductive freedom won again in 2024.
If the American people send me a Congress that supports the right to choose, I promise to restore Roe v. Wade as the law of the land again.
Folks, America cannot go back.
["The speaker is here tonight to show what he believes is the way forward.", "The speaker knows how far we've come from the worst pandemic and the worst economic crisis in a century.", "Four years ago, before the speaker came to office, the country was hit by the worst pandemic and the worst economic crisis in a century.", "Remember the fear, record losses, spikes in crime, and the murder rate?, "A raging virus took more than 1 million American lives of loved ones.", "Millions were left behind."]
["The speaker discussed a mental health crisis of isolation and loneliness.", "A president, the speaker's predecessor, failed in the most basic presidential duty that he owes to American people: the duty to care.", "The speaker's predecessor failed in the duty to care.", "The speaker's predecessor was a president.", "The speaker's predecessor was a president.", "The speaker's predecessor was a president.", "The speaker's predecessor was a president.", "The speaker's predecessor was a president.", "The speaker's predecessor failed in the duty to care.", "The speaker's predecessor was a president.", "The speaker's predecessor was a president.", "The speaker's predecessor was a president.", "The speaker's predecessor failed in the duty to care.", "The speaker's predecessor was a president.", "The speaker's predecessor was a president.", "The speaker's predecessor failed in the duty to care.", "The speaker's predecessor was a president.", "The speaker's predecessor failed in the duty to care.", "The speaker's predecessor was a president.", "The speaker's predecessor failed in the duty to care.", "The speaker's predecessor was a president.", "The speaker's predecessor failed in the duty to care.", "The speaker's predecessor was a president.", "The speaker's predecessor failed in the duty to care.", "The speaker's predecessor was a president.", "The speaker's predecessor failed in the duty to care.", "The speaker's predecessor was a president.", "The speaker's predecessor failed in the duty to care.", "The speaker's predecessor failed in the duty to care.", "The speaker's predecessor was a president.", "The speaker's predecessor failed in the duty to care.", "The speaker's predecessor failed in the duty to care.", "The speaker's predecessor failed in the duty to care.", "The speaker's predecessor failed in the duty to care.", "The speaker's predecessor failed in the duty to care.", "The speaker's predecessor failed in the duty to care.", "The speaker's predecessor failed in the duty to care.", "The speaker's predecessor
The American people are writing the greatest comeback story never told.
The story is happening in a thousand cities and towns.
The story is being told.
The story is being told here and now.
America's comeback is building a future of American possibilities.", "America's comeback involves building an economy from the middle out and the bottom up, not the top down.", "America's comeback involves investing in all of America.", "America's comeback involves making sure everyone has a fair shot.", "America's comeback involves leaving no one behind.", "The pandemic no longer controls our lives.", "The vaccine that saved us from COVID is now being used to beat cancer."]
Turning setback into comeback is what America does.
A record 16 million Americans are starting small businesses.
Each small business is a literal act of hope.
Historic job growth and small-business growth for Black, Hispanics, and Asian Americans are happening.
Eight hundred thousand new manufacturing jobs are being created in America.
The manufacturing jobs are being created in America.
America is the manufacturing capital of the world.
America will be the manufacturing capital of the world.
More people have health insurance today than ever before.
The racial wealth gap is the smallest it's been in 20 years.
Wages keep going up.
Inflation keeps coming down.
Inflation has dropped from 9 percent to 3 percent.
Inflation is the lowest in the world.
Inflation is tending (trending) lower.
The landing is and will be soft.
Now, instead of importing foreign products and exporting American jobs, we're exporting American products and creating American jobs.
American jobs belong in America.
The American people are beginning to feel the change in the economy.
On my watch, federal projects that you fund will be made with American products.
Federal projects will be built by American workers.
Federal projects will create good-paying American jobs.
The CHIPS and Science Act is a law.
The United States is investing more in research and development than ever before.
During the pandemic, there was a shortage of semiconductors.
The shortage of semiconductors drove up the price of everything from cell phones to automobiles.
The United States invented those chips right here in America.
Private companies are investing billions of dollars to build new chip factories in America.
These chip factories create tens of thousands of jobs.
Many of these jobs pay $100,000 a year.
These jobs don't require a college degree.
My policies have attracted $650 billion in private-sector investment in clean energy, advanced manufacturing.
These investments create tens of thousands of jobs in America.
[The Bipartisan Infrastructure Law has brought 46,000 new projects to communities across the country.", "Some people who have strongly voted against the Bipartisan Infrastructure Law are cheering on the money coming in.", "The speaker likes the cheering and is with the cheering.", "The speaker wants to know if anyone doesn't want the money in their district."]
Modernizing our roads and bridges, ports and airports, public transit systems.", "Removing poisonous lead pipes so every child can drink clean water without risk of brain damage.", "Providing affordable high-speed Internet for every American.", "High-speed Internet is available for every American, no matter where you live.", "High-speed Internet is available in urban, suburban, or rural communities in red states and blue states.", "Record investments in Tribal communities."]
The speaker invested in family farms.
The Secretary of Agriculture led the investment in family farms.
The Secretary of Agriculture knows more about family farms than anyone else.
The investment in family farms helps keep people in the family for those farms.
The investment in family farms helps keep children and grandchildren from leaving home to make a living.
The investment in family farms is transformative.
Belvidere, Illinois is home to an auto plant for nearly 60 years.", "Belvidere, Illinois was home to an auto plant for nearly 60 years before the speaker came to office.", "Before the speaker came to office, the plant was on its way to shutting down.", "Thousands of workers feared for their livelihoods at the plant.", "Hope was fading for the workers at the plant."]
The speaker was elected to office.
The speaker raised Belvidere repeatedly with auto companies.
The speaker knew unions would make all the difference.
The UAW worked like hell to keep the plant open and get these jobs back.
The UAW succeeded in keeping Belvidere open and getting these jobs back.
Instead of auto factories shutting down, auto factories are reopening.
A new state-of-the-art battery factory is being built to power those cars at Belvidere.
[The speaker is addressing the folks of Belvidere.", "Belvidere is a town in the Midwest.", "Belvidere is moving forward again.", "Instead of watching auto jobs go overseas, 4,000 union jobs with higher wages are building a future in Belvidere.", "The future in Belvidere is right here in America.", "The UAW President is Shawn Fain.", "Shawn Fain is a great friend and a great labor leader.", "Shawn Fain is standing up."]
Dawn Simms is a third-generation worker.
Dawn Simms is a UAW worker at Belvidere.
Shawn was proud to be the first President to stand in the picket line.
Today, Dawn has a good job in her hometown.
Dawn's job provides stability for her family.
Dawn's job provides pride and dignity to her family.
Wall Street didn't build America, but they're not bad guys.", "The middle class built the country, and unions built the middle class.", "The speaker says to the American people that when America gets knocked down, they get back up and keep going.", "That's America.", "That's you, the American people."]
[Audience: Four more years! Four more years! Four more years!]
[The President of the United States is speaking tonight.", "The President wants to talk about the future of possibilities that we can build together.", "The President wants to build a future where the days of trickle-down economics are over.", "The President wants to build a future where the wealthy and the biggest corporations no longer get all the tax breaks."]
The speaker understands corporations.
The speaker comes from a state with more corporations invested than every one of your states in the state — the United States combined.
The speaker represented the state for 36 years.
The speaker is not anti-corporation.
The speaker grew up in a home where trickle-down economics didn't put much on their dad's kitchen table.
The speaker is determined to turn things around so the middle class does well.
When the middle class does well, the poor have a way up.
When the middle class does well, the wealthy still do very well.
The speaker believes that everyone does well when the middle class does well.
There's more to do to make sure people are feeling the benefits of all we're doing.
Americans pay more for prescription drugs than anywhere in the world, according to the speaker.
The speaker wants to cap the cost of insulin at $35 a month for every American who needs it.
Every American needs insulin.
For years, people have talked about limiting the cost of insulin.
The speaker got it done and gave Medicare the power to negotiate lower prices on prescription drugs.
The VA is able to negotiate lower prices for veterans.
The federal deficit was cut by $160 billion.
Medicare will no longer have to pay exorbitant prices to Big Pharma.
This year, Medicare is negotiating lower prices for some of the costliest drugs on the market.
These drugs treat everything from heart disease to arthritis.
It's time to give Medicare the power to negotiate lower prices for 500 different drugs over the next decade.
The bill will save lives and save taxpayers another $200 billion.
Starting next year, the same law caps total prescription drug costs for seniors on Medicare at $200.
The law caps prescription drug costs at $2,000 a year for expensive cancer drugs.
Expensive cancer drugs cost $10-, $12-, $15,000.
The bill caps prescription drug costs for everyone.
[Folks, I'm going to get in trouble for saying that, but any of you want to get in Air Force One with me and fly to Toronto, Berlin, Moscow, and bring your prescription with you, and I promise you, I'll get it for you for 40 percent the cost you're paying now." Same company, same drug, same place."]
The Affordable Care Act is still a very big deal.
Over 100 million people can no longer be denied health insurance because of a preexisting condition.
My predecessor and many in this chamber want to take the prescription drug away by repealing Affordable Care Act.
[The President is not going to let that happen.", "The President has been stopped 50 times before.", "The President will be stopped again.", "The President is not only protecting the healthcare system, but expanding it.", "The President enacted tax credits of $800 per person per year to reduce healthcare costs for millions of working families.", "The tax credit for the healthcare costs expires next year.", "The President wants to make the healthcare savings permanent."]
Women are more than half of the population.", "Research on women's health has always been underfunded.", "The White House Initiative on Women's Health Research is being launched.", "Jill is leading the initiative on women's health research.", "Jill is doing an incredible job as First Lady.", "The goal of the initiative is to pass the plan for $12 billion.", "The plan aims to transform women's health research.", "The plan aims to benefit millions of lives all across America."]
The cost of housing is important to Americans.
Inflation keeps coming down.
Mortgage rates will come down as well.
The Fed acknowledges that mortgage rates will come down.
The speaker is not waiting for mortgage rates to come down.
The speaker wants to provide an annual tax credit for Americans.
The tax credit will give Americans $400 a month for the next two years as mortgage rates come down.
The tax credit will be used to put toward mortgages when Americans buy their first home or trade up for a little more space.
The tax credit is for two years.
The administration is eliminating title insurance on federally backed mortgages.
When you refinance your home, you can save $1,000 or more as a consequence.
For millions of renters, we're cracking down on big landlords who use antitrust law.
Big landlords break antitrust laws by price-fixing and driving up rents.
We've cut red tape so builders can get federally financing.
Federal financing is already helping build a record 1.7 million new house units nationwide.
Now pass my plan.
Pass my plan and build and renovate 2 million affordable homes.
Pass my plan and bring those rents down.
To remain the strongest economy in the world, we need to have the best education system in the world.
[Introduction: I think I pointed out last year that children coming from broken homes often start school having heard a million fewer words spoken.", "Children from broken homes are often not read to, are not spoken to, and often start school having heard a million fewer words spoken.", "Children from broken homes are often in kindergarten or first grade hearing."]
Studies show that children who go to preschool are nearly 50 percent more likely to finish high school.
Children who go to preschool are more likely to go on to earn a two- and four-year degree no matter their background.
The speaker met a year and a half ago with the leaders of the Business Roundtable.
The leaders of the Business Roundtable were mad that the speaker was ever angry.
The speaker wanted to spend money on education.
The speaker was a Vice President.
The speaker met with over 8--I think it was 182 of those folks.
The speaker didn't hold me to the exact number of folks.
The speaker asked the folks what they need most — the CEOs.
The speaker had the same experience on both sides of the aisle.
The folks say they need a better-educated workforce.
The speaker is from Delaware.
DuPont used to be the eighth-largest corporation in the world.
Every new enter- - enterprise DuPont bought, they educated the workforce to that enterprise.
No one educates the workforce to that enterprise anymore.
The speaker provides the best-educated workforce in the world.
The audience responds to the speaker's argument.
The speaker wants to expand high-quality tutoring and summer learning.
The speaker wants to see that every child learns to read by third grade.
The speaker is connecting local businesses and high schools.
Students will get hands-on experience and a path to a good-paying job whether or not they go to college.
The speaker wants to make college more affordable.
The speaker wants to continue increasing the Pell Grants to working- and middle-class families.
The speaker wants to increase record investments in HBCUs and minority-serving institutions.
The speaker wants to increase investments in Hispanic institutions.
The speaker was told he couldn't universally just change the way in which they dealt with student loans.
The speaker fixed two student loan programs that already existed.
The fix aimed to reduce the burden of student debt for nearly 4 million Americans.
Nurse, firefighters, and others in public service were among the people affected by the fix.
Keenan Jones is a public educator in Minnesota.
Keenan Jones is here with us tonight.
Keenan Jones is grateful for the opportunity to speak.
The speaker educated hundreds of students to go to college.
The speaker is able to help his own daughter to college after debt forgiveness.
Such relief is good for the economy.
People are able to buy a home, start a business, start a family after debt forgiveness.
The speaker wants to give public school teachers a raise.
In the first couple of years, the deficit was cut.
The speaker is speaking about fundamental fairness for all Americans.
The speaker has been delivering real results in fiscally responsible ways.
The speaker has already cut the federal deficit by over $1 trillion.
The speaker signed a bipartisan deal to cut another trillion dollars in the next decade.
The speaker's goal is to cut the federal deficit another $3 trillion.
The speaker wants to make big corporations and the very wealthy finally begin to pay their fair share.
["The speaker is a capitalist."
["The President is a person.", "The President is a person.", "The President is a person.", "The President is a person.", "The President is a person.", "The President is a person.", "The President is a person.", "The President is a person.", "The President is a person.", "The President is a person.", "The President is a person.", "The President is a person.", "The President is a person.", "The President is a person.", "The President is a person.", "The President is a person.", "The President is a person.", "The President is a person.", "The President is a person.", "The President is a person.", "The President is a person.", "The President is a person.", "The President is a person.", "The President is a person.", "The President is a person.", "The President is a person.", "The President is a person.", "The President is a person.", "The President is a person.", "The President is a person.", "The President is a person.", "The President is a person.", "The President is a person.", "The President is a person.", "The President is a person.", "The President is a person.", "The President is a person.", "The President is a person.", "The President is a person.", "The President is a person.", "The President is a person.", "The President is a person.", "The President is a person.", "The President is a person.", "The President is a person.", "The President is a person.", "The President is a person.", "The President is a person.", "The President is a person.", "The President is a person.", "The President is a person.", "The President is a person.", "The President is a person.", "The President is a person.", "The President is a person.", "The President is a person.", "The President is a person
[The President of the United States is a person.", "The President of the United States is a person.", "The President of the United States is a person.", "The President of the United States is a person.", "Under the President of the United States plan, nobody earning less than $400,000 a year will pay an additional penny in federal taxes.", "Nobody earning less than $400,000 a year will pay an additional penny in federal taxes.", "Nobody earning less than $400,000 a year will pay an additional penny in federal taxes.", "Nobody earning less than $400,000 a year has paid an additional penny in federal taxes.", "The Child Tax Credit was passed during the pandemic.", "The Child Tax Credit cut taxes for millions of working families.", "The Child Tax Credit cut child poverty in half.", "The President of the United States should restore the Child Tax Credit.", "No child should go hungry in this country."]
The way to make the tax code fair is to make big corporations and the very wealthy begin to pay their share.
In 2020, 55 of the biggest companies in America made $40 billion and paid zero in federal income tax.
55 of the biggest companies in America paid zero in federal income tax in 2020.
The law I wrote and we signed is a law that big companies have to pay a minimum of 15 percent.
The law is still less than working people pay in federal taxes.
It's time to raise the corporate minimum tax to at least 21 percent.
Every big corporation should pay their fair share.
[AUDIENCE MEMBER: Zero!]
The President is making great sacrifices.
The President is paying 8.2 percent.
The President is far less than the vast majority of Americans pay.
The President believes that no billionaire should pay a lower federal tax rate than a teacher, a sanitation worker, or a nurse.
The speaker proposed a minimum tax for billionaires of 25 percent.
The minimum tax would raise $500 billion over the next 10 years.
The speaker envisioned a future with affordable childcare.
Millions of families could get what they need to go to work to help grow the economy.
The speaker envisioned a future with paid leave.
No one should have to choose between working and taking care of their sick family member.
I imagine a future with home care and eldercare.
People living with disabilities can stay in their homes.
Family caregivers can finally get the pay they deserve.
Tonight, let's all agree once again to stand up for seniors.
Many of my friends on the other side of the aisle want to put Social Security on the chopping block.
If anyone here tries to cut Social Security or Medicare, I will stop them.
If anyone here tries to raise the retirement age, I will stop them.
[The President is a person.", "The President's plan was not to cut another $2 trillion for the super-wealthy.", "The President will protect and strengthen Social Security.", "The President will make the wealthy pay their fair share.", "Too many corporations raise prices to pad their profits.", "Corporations charge more and more for less and less."]
The speaker is cracking down on corporations that engage in price gouging and deceptive pricing.
The crackdown is from food to healthcare to housing.
Snack companies think you won't notice if they change the size of the bag and put a hell of a lot fewer chips in it.
The snack companies are not joking about shrink-flation.
The speaker is not joking about shrink-flation.
The speaker is calling for Bobby Casey's bill to be passed.
The speaker wants to stop shrink-flation.
The speaker really means it.
You probably all saw that commercial on Snickers bars.
In the commercial, you get charged the same amount and you get about 10 percent fewer Snickers in it.
The speaker is getting rid of junk fees at the end of your bill.
Junk fees are hidden fees at the end of your bill that are there without your knowledge.
The speaker's administration announced they're cutting credit card late fees from $32 to $8.
Banks and credit card companies are allowed to charge what it costs them to instigate the collection.
The cost of instigate collection is more like $8 than 30-some dollars.
Banks and credit card companies don't like charging for collection.
The credit card companies don't like charging for collection.
The speaker is saving American families $20 billion a year with all of the junk fees they're eliminating.
The banks are mad about the $20 billion in profit.
The speaker is not stopping there.
The speaker's administration has proposed rules to make cable, travel, utilities, and online ticket sellers tell you the total price up front.
The rules would make sure there are no surprises.
The speaker believes that telling the total price up front matters.
The speaker believes that telling the total price up front matters.
[The President is a person."]
[The president doesn't like the bill that conservatives got together and said was a good bill.", "The president finds it amazing that conservatives thought the bill was a good one."]
The bill would hire 1,500 more security agents and officers.
The bill would hire 100 more immigration judges to help tackle the backload of 2 million cases.
The bill would hire 4,300 more asylum officers.
The bill would create new policies so asylum officers can resolve cases in six months instead of six years now.
The bill would include one hundred more high-tech drug detection machines.
The bill would significantly increase the ability to screen and stop vehicles smuggling fentanyl into America.
Fentanyl is killing thousands of children.
This bill would save lives and bring order to the border.
The bill would give the president and any new president new emergency authority to temporarily shut down the border when the number of migrants at the border is overwhelming.
The Border Patrol union has endorsed this bill.
The federal Chamber of Commerce has endorsed this bill.
You're saying 'no'.
Look at the facts.
You know how to read.
The President believes that a majority in the House and Senate would endorse the bill.
The President believes that a majority in the Senate would endorse the bill.
The President believes that a majority in the House and Senate would endorse the bill.
The President believes that a majority in the Senate would endorse the bill.
The President believes that politics have derailed the bill so far.
The speaker is told their predecessor called members of Congress in the Senate to demand they block the bill.
The speaker's predecessor felt political win would be a political win for them and a political loser for him.
The speaker thinks it's not about him.
The speaker thinks it's not about the speaker.
The speaker thinks they would be a winner — not really.
The speaker is asked about Laken Riley.
Laken Riley is a person.
The speaker is asked about the speaker's opponent.
The speaker is asked about the speaker's opponent.
The speaker is asked about the speaker's opponent.
The President holds up a pin reading 'Say Her Name, Laken Riley.'
Lanken Riley is an innocent young woman who was killed.
The President is referring to Lanken Riley.
Lanken Riley was killed by an illegal.
The President is asking how many of thousands of people are being killed by legals.
The speaker's heart goes out to her parents.
The speaker has lost children.
The speaker understands the situation of the parents.
People pay people 8,000 bucks to get across the border.
People pay smugglers 8,000 bucks to get across the border.
People know if they get by and let into the country, it's six to eight years before they have a hearing.
It's worth taking the chance of the $8,000.
["Get it done! Get it done! Get it done!
[The President is asking his predecessor to join him in telling Congress to pass the bill.", "The President wants to pass the bill together.", "The President's predecessor will not join him in passing the bill.", "The President will not demonize immigrants.", "The President will not say that immigrants are poison in the blood of our country.", "The President will not separate families."]
The speaker will not ban people because of their faith.
The speaker introduced a comprehensive bill to fix our immigration system on his first day in office.
The bill has many provisions to secure the border.
The bill provides a pathway to citizenship for DREAMers.
The bill has many provisions to draw from old and new.
The speaker knows who we are as Americans.
The United States is the only nation in the world with a heart and soul that draws from old and new.
The speaker is a Native American.
Native Americans have been in the United States for thousands of years.
The speaker is a person from every place on Earth.
People came freely to the United States.
Some people came in chains to the United States.
Some people came when famine struck, like the speaker's ancestral family in Ireland.
Some people came to flee persecution to the United States.
Some people came to chase dreams that are impossible anywhere but in America.
America is a place where people come from somewhere.
We all come from somewhere, but we're all Americans.
The speaker is urging people to fix the border.
The speaker is urging people to fight about fixing the border.
The speaker is urging people to fix the border.
The speaker is asking for the border bill to be sent to the speaker.
[The President: A transformational moment in history happened 58 59 years ago in Selma, Alabama.", "Hundreds of foot soldiers for justice marched across the Edmund Pettus Bridge.", "The Edmund Pettus Bridge was named after the Grand Dragon of the Ku Klux Klan.", "The march was to claim their fundamental right to vote.", "The marchers were beaten.", "The marchers were bloodied.", "The marchers were left for dead.", "John Lewis was a late friend and former colleague of the President.", "John Lewis was on the march.", "John Lewis was on the march.", "John Lewis missed the president."]
The speaker is Bettie Mae Fikes.
Bettye Mae Fikes is known as the 'Voice of Selma'.
Bettye Mae Fikes is the daughter of gospel singers and preachers.
Bettye Mae Fikes sang songs of prayer and protest on Bloody Sunday.
Bettye Mae Fikes' songs helped shake the nation's conscience.
Five months after Bloody Sunday, the Voting Rights Act passed and was signed into law.
59 years later, there are forces taking us back in time.
These forces include voter suppression, election subversion, unlimited dark money, and extreme gerrymandering.
John Lewis was a great friend to many of us here.
If you truly want to honor John Lewis and all the heroes who marched with him, it's time to do more than talk.
Pass the Freedom to Vote Act.
Pass the John Lewis Voting Right(s) Act.
The speaker is denying another core value of America: our diversity across American life.
Banneling books is wrong.
Instead of erasing history, let's make history.
The speaker wants to protect fundamental rights.
The speaker wants to pass the Equality Act.
The speaker's message to transgender Americans is that they have their back.
The speaker wants to pass the PRO Act for workers' rights.
The speaker wants to raise the federal minimum wage.
Every worker has the right to a decent living more than seven bucks an hour.
We're making history by confronting the climate crisis, not denying it.
The speaker doesn't think any of you think there's no longer a climate crisis.
The speaker hopes that no one thinks there's no longer a climate crisis.
The speaker is taking the most significant action ever on climate in the history of the world.
The speaker is cutting carbon emissions in half by 2030.
The speaker is creating tens of thousands of clean energy jobs.
IBEW workers are building and installing 500,000 electric vehicle charging stations.
The speaker is conserving 30 percent of America's lands and waters by 2030.
The speaker is taking action on environmental justice.
Environmental justice involves fence-line communities smothered by the legacy of pollution.
The Climate Corps is patterned after the Peace Corps and AmericaCorps.
AmericaCorps is also known as AmeriCorps.
The Climate Corps aims to put 20,000 young people to work in the forefront of our clean energy future.
The Climate Corps will triple the number of young people in a decade.
All Americans deserve the freedom to be safe.
America is safer today than when the President took office.
The year before the President took office, murder rates went up 30 percent.
The President mentioned Abbey Gate.
Thirty percent of the United States Marines went up.
Kareem Mae'Lee Nikoui was a United States Marine.
The President mentioned the biggest increase in history.
Mr. NIKOUI mentioned Abbey Gate.
[The President made the largest investment in public safety ever through his American Rescue Plan.", "Every American Republican voted against the American Rescue Plan.", "Last year, the murder rate saw the sharpest decrease in history.", "Violent crime fell to one of its lowest levels in more than 50 years."]
We have more to do.
We have to help cities invest in more community police officers.
We have to help cities invest in more mental health workers.
We have to help cities invest in more community violence intervention.
Give communities the tools to crack down on gun crime, retail crime, and carjacking.
Keep building trust by taking executive action on police reform.
We call for police reform to be the law of the land.
The speaker is directing his Cabinet to review the federal classification of marijuana.
The speaker wants to expunge thousands of convictions for marijuana possession.
No one should be jailed for simply using or having marijuana on their record.
The speaker is taking on crimes of domestic violence.
The speaker is ramping up the federal enforcement of the Violence Against Women Act.
The speaker wrote the Violence Against Women Act when he was a senator.
The speaker wants to end the scourge against women in America.
The speaker wants to stop other kinds of violence.
Jasmine is a person with a nine-year-old sister named Jackie. Jackie was murdered with 21 classmates and teachers in her elementary school in Uvalde, Texas.", "Jill and I went to Uvalde for a couple days after Jackie's murder.", "Jill and I spent hours and hours with each of the families of Jackie.", "We heard the message of the families so everyone in this room, in this chamber could hear the same message."]
The speaker was there for hours, meeting with every family.
The families said, 'Do something.'
The speaker established the first-ever Office of Gun Violence Prevention in the White House.
The Vice President is leading the charge for the Office of Gun Violence Prevention.
The speaker thanked the Vice President for doing the Office of Gun Violence Prevention.
The speaker's predecessor told the NRA he's proud he did nothing on guns when he was President.
The President of the United States is speaking.
After another shooting in Iowa recently, the President of the United States said he would just 'get over it' when asked what to do about it.
The President of the United States said 'get over it'.
The President of the United States said'stop it. Stop it, stop it, stop it.'
The President of the United States is proud we beat the NRA.
The President of the United States signed the most significant gun safety law in nearly 30 years because of Congress.
The President of the United States must beat the NRA again.
The speaker is demanding a ban on assault weapons and high-capacity magazines.
The speaker is demanding universal background checks.
The speaker taught the Second Amendment for 12 years.
None of these demands violates the Second Amendment or vilifies responsible gun owners.
The speaker is managing challenges at home.
The speaker is managing crises abroad, including in the Middle East.
The last five months have been gut-wrenching for many people.
The people affected by the crisis include the Israeli people, the Palestinian people, and many Americans.
The crisis began on October 7th with a massacre by a terrorist group called Hamas.
One thousand two hundred innocent people were slaughtered after enduring sexual violence.
The victims were women, girls, men, and boys.
The massacre was the deadliest day of the Jewish people since the Holocaust.
250 hostages were taken.
This is a pledge to all the families whose loved ones are still being held by Hamas.
The pledge is to bring every one of your loved ones home.
The pledge also includes working around the clock to bring home Evan and Paul, Americans being unjustly detained by the Russians.
The pledge also includes working around the clock to bring home others around the world.
Israel has a right to go after Hamas.", "Hamas ended the conflict by releasing the hostages, laying down arms, and surrendering those responsible for October 7th.", "Israel could end the conflict by releasing the hostages, laying down arms, and surrendering those responsible for October 7th.", "Israel has a added burden because Hamas hides and operates among the civilian population like cowards.", "Hamas operates under hospitals, daycare centers, and all the like."]
Israel has a fundamental responsibility to protect innocent civilians in Gaza.
This war has taken a greater toll on innocent civilians than all previous wars in Gaza combined.
More than 30,000 Palestinians have been killed.
Most of the killed Palestinians are not Hamas.
Thousands and thousands of innocents have been killed.
Innocents include women and children.
Girls and boys are also orphaned.
Nearly 2 million more Palestinians are under bombardment or displacement.", "Homes are destroyed, neighborhoods are in rubble, cities are in ruin.", "Families are without food, water, and medicine.", "It's heartbreaking.", "The speaker has been working non-stop to establish an immediate ceasefire that would last for six weeks.", "The ceasefire aims to get all the prisoners released.", "The ceasefire aims to get the hostages home.", "The ceasefire aims to ease the intolerable humanitarian crisis.", "The ceasefire aims to build toward an enduring solution.", "The ceasefire aims to build toward something more enduring."]
The United States has been leading international efforts to get more humanitarian assistance into Gaza.
The speaker is directing the U.S. military to lead an emergency mission to establish a temporary pier in the Mediterranean on the coast of Gaza.
The temporary pier will receive large shipments carrying food, water, medicine, and temporary shelters.
No U.S. boots will be on the ground during the emergency mission.
A temporary pier will enable a massive increase in the amount of humanitarian assistance getting into Gaza every day.
Israel must do its part.
Israel must allow more aid into Gaza.
Israel must ensure humanitarian workers aren't caught in the crossfire.
Israel is announcing they're going to have a crossing in Northern Gaza.
The speaker is addressing the leadership of Israel.
Humanitarian assistance cannot be a secondary consideration or a bargaining chip.
Protecting and saving innocent lives has to be a priority.
The only real solution to the situation is a two-state solution over time.
The speaker is a lifelong supporter of Israel.
The speaker has supported Israel throughout his entire career.
No one has a stronger record with Israel than the speaker.
The speaker challenges any of you here.
The speaker is the only American president to visit Israel in wartime.
There is no other path that guarantees Israel's security and democracy.
There is no other path that guarantees Palestinians can live in peace with peace and dignity.
There is no other path that guarantees peace between Israel and all of its neighbors.
Saudi Arabia is one of Israel's neighbors.
I am talking to Saudi Arabia.
Creating stability in the Middle East means containing the threat posed by Iran.
The speaker built a coalition of more than a dozen countries to defend international shipping and freedom of navigation in the Red Sea.
The speaker ordered strikes to degrade the Houthi capability.
The speaker ordered strikes to defend U.S. forces in the region.
The speaker will not hesitate to direct further measures to protect the people and military personnel.
Many of my Republican and Democratic friends say that China is on the rise and America is falling behind.
These friends have got it backwards.
The speaker has been saying this for over four years, even when he wasn't president.
America is rising.
America has the best economy in the world.
Since the speaker's arrival, our GDP is up.
Our trade deficit with China is down to the lowest point in over a decade.
The speaker is standing up against China's unfair economic practices.
The speaker is standing up for peace and stability across the Taiwan Straits.
The speaker has revitalized their partnership and alliance in the Pacific.
The Pacific Partnership and Alliance includes India, Australia, Japan, South Korea, and the Pacific Islands.
The speaker has made sure that the most advanced American technologies can't be used in China.
The speaker has not allowed to trade advanced American technologies in China.
["The speaker wants competition with China, not conflict.", "The speaker wants competition with China, not conflict.", "The speaker wants competition with China, not conflict.", "The speaker wants competition with China, not conflict.", "The speaker wants competition with China, not conflict.", "The speaker wants competition with China, not conflict.", "The speaker wants competition with China, not conflict.", "The speaker wants competition with China, not conflict.", "The speaker wants competition with China, not conflict.", "The speaker wants competition with China, not conflict.", "The speaker wants competition with China, not conflict.", "The speaker wants competition with China, not conflict.", "The speaker wants competition with China, not conflict.", "The speaker wants competition with China, not conflict.", "The speaker wants competition with China, not conflict.", "The speaker wants competition with China, not conflict.", "The speaker wants competition with China, not conflict.", "The speaker wants competition with China, not conflict.", "The speaker wants competition with China, not conflict.", "The speaker wants competition with China, not conflict.", "The speaker wants competition with China, not conflict.", "The speaker wants competition with China, not conflict.", "The speaker wants competition with China, not conflict.", "The speaker wants competition with China, not conflict.", "The speaker wants competition with China, not conflict.", "The speaker wants competition with China, not conflict.", "The speaker wants competition with China, not conflict.", "The speaker wants competition with China, not conflict.", "The speaker wants competition with China, not conflict.", "The speaker wants competition with China, not conflict.", "The speaker wants competition with China, not conflict.", "The speaker wants competition with China, not conflict.", "The speaker wants competition with China, not conflict.", "The speaker wants competition with China, not conflict.", "The speaker wants competition with China, not conflict.", "The speaker wants competition with China, not conflict.", "The speaker wants competition with China, not conflict.", "The speaker wants competition with China, not conflict.", "The speaker wants competition with China, not conflict.", "The speaker wants competition with China, not conflict.", "The speaker wants competition with China, not conflict.", "The speaker wants competition with China, not conflict.", "The speaker wants competition with China
Strengthen penalties on fentanyl trafficking.
You don't want to do that, huh?
Pass bipartisan privacy legislation to protect our children online.
Harness the promise of AI to protect us from peril.
Ban AI voice impersonations and more.
Keep our truly sacred obligation to train and equip those we send into harm's way.
Keep our obligation to care for those we send into harm's way and their families when they come home and when they don't.
Denise Richards is a member of the House of Representatives.
[The President of the United States is speaking.", "The President of the United States is addressing the audience.", "The President of the United States is addressing the audience.", "The President of the United States is addressing the audience.", "The President of the United States is addressing the audience.", "The President of the United States is addressing the audience.", "The President of the United States is addressing the audience.", "The President of the United States is addressing the audience.", "The President of the United States is addressing the audience.", "The President of the United States is addressing the audience.", "The President of the United States is addressing the audience.", "The President of the United States is addressing the audience.", "The President of the United States is addressing the audience.", "The President of the United States is addressing the audience.", "The President of the United States is addressing the audience.", "The President of the United States is addressing the audience.", "The President of the United States is addressing the audience.", "The President of the United States is addressing the audience.", "The President of the United States is addressing the audience.", "The President of the United States is addressing the audience.", "The President of the United States is addressing the audience.", "The President of the United States is addressing the audience.", "The President of the United States is addressing the audience.", "The President of the United States is addressing the audience.", "The President of the United States is addressing the audience.", "The President of the United States is addressing the audience.", "The President of the United States is addressing the audience.", "The President of the United States is addressing the audience.", "The President of the United States is addressing the audience.", "The President of the United States is addressing the audience.", "The President of the United States is addressing the audience.", "The President of the United States is addressing the audience.", "The President of the United States is addressing the audience.", "The President of the United States is addressing the audience.", "The President of the United States is addressing the audience.", "The President of the United States is addressing the audience.", "The President of the United States is addressing the
The speaker may not look like they have been around a while.
When you get to be my age, certain things become clearer than ever.
The speaker knows the American story.
The speaker has seen the contest between competing forces in the battle for the soul of our nation.
The contest is between those who want to pull America back to the past and those who want to move America into the future.
The speaker's lifetime has taught them to embrace freedom and democracy.
The speaker believes that a future based on core values has defined America.
The core values include honesty, decency, dignity, and equality.
The speaker believes in respecting everyone.
The speaker believes in giving everyone a fair shot.
The speaker believes in giving hate no safe harbor.
Other people their age see the speaker's views differently.
Other people see the American story of resentment, revenge, and retribution.
The speaker was born amid World War Two.
America stood for the freedom of the world during World War Two.
The speaker grew up in Scranton, Pennsylvania, and Claymont, Delaware.
The speaker grew up among working-class people who built this country.
The speaker watched in horror as two of his heroes, Dr. King and Bobby Kennedy, were assassinated.
Many of you watched Dr. King and Bobby Kennedy's assassinations.
Dr. King and Bobby Kennedy's legacies inspired the speaker to pursue a career in service.
The speaker left a law firm and became a public defender.
The speaker's city of Wilmington was the only city in America occupied by the National Guard after Dr. King was assassinated because of the riots.
Dr. King was assassinated because of the riots.
The speaker became a county councilman almost by accident.
The speaker got elected to the United States Senate at age 29.
The speaker had no intention of running for the United States Senate.
The speaker became vice president to our first Black president.
The speaker became a president to the first woman vice president.
The speaker has been told they were too young in their career.
The speaker was not allowed on the Senate elevators for votes sometimes.
The speaker has been told they are too old in their career.
The speaker has always known what endures.
The speaker has known our North Star.
The idea of America is that we're all created equal.
America deserves to be treated equally throughout our lives.
[The President of the United States is speaking.", "The speaker is addressing the audience.", "The speaker is addressing the President of the United States.", "The speaker is addressing the audience.", "The speaker is addressing the audience.", "The speaker is addressing the audience.", "The speaker is addressing the audience.", "The speaker is addressing the audience.", "The speaker is addressing the audience.", "The speaker is addressing the audience.", "The speaker is addressing the audience.", "The speaker is addressing the audience.", "The speaker is addressing the audience.", "The speaker is addressing the audience.", "The speaker is addressing the audience.", "The speaker is addressing the audience.", "The speaker is addressing the audience.", "The speaker is addressing the audience.", "The speaker is addressing the audience.", "The speaker is addressing the audience.", "The speaker is addressing the audience.", "The speaker is addressing the audience.", "The speaker is addressing the audience.", "The speaker is addressing the audience.", "The speaker is addressing the audience.", "The speaker is addressing the audience.", "The speaker is addressing the audience.", "The speaker is addressing the audience.", "The speaker is addressing the audience.", "The speaker is addressing the audience.", "The speaker is addressing the audience.", "The speaker is addressing the audience.", "The speaker is addressing the audience.", "The speaker is addressing the audience.", "The speaker is addressing the audience.", "The speaker is addressing the audience.", "The speaker is addressing the audience.", "The speaker is addressing the audience.", "The speaker is addressing the audience.", "The speaker is addressing the audience.", "The speaker is addressing the audience.", "The speaker is addressing the audience.", "The speaker is addressing the audience.", "The speaker is addressing the audience.", "The speaker is addressing the audience.", "The speaker is addressing the audience.", "The speaker is addressing the audience.", "The speaker is addressing the audience.", "The speaker is addressing the audience.", "The speaker is addressing the audience.", "The speaker is addressing the
Hate, anger, revenge, retribution are the oldest of ideas.
I see a future where we restore the right to choose and protect our freedoms, not take them away.
I see a future where the middle class has a fair shot.
I see a future where the wealthy have to pay their fair share in taxes.
I see a future where we save the planet from the climate crisis.
I see a future where we save our country from gun violence.
Above all, I see a future for all Americans.", "I see a country for all Americans.", "The President will always be President for all Americans.", "The President believes in America.", "The President believes in the American people.", "The American people are the reason the President is more optimistic about their future than he is now.", "Let's build the future together.", "Let's remember who we are."]
We are the United States of America.
There is nothing beyond our capacity when we act together.
God bless you all.
May God protect our troops.
Thank you, thank you, thank you.
